A NEW farmers market has been opened for smallholder farmers in the Mogwase area.The market helps farmers showcase their produce and sell directly to clients. It comes after similar markets were established in other parts of the province to give farmers exposure to the business side of their enterprises.Rural, environment and agricultural development department head Poncho Mokaila said the initiative came about as a support system for small farmers.He said this was the third one in the province after two were launched recently in Mahikeng and Taung.He said the department partnered with the North West Development Corporation and the North West University Mafikeng campus in rolling out the farmers markets. The establishment of the farmers market is vital. This will assist in the existence of the smallhold producers. The initiative will benefit as the farmers will bring their products directly to the public. Consequently this will further reduce and eliminate middlemen as the produce will directly be sold to the consumers. The consumers will also save money on travelling expenses, he said.Mokaila said the occasion accentuated the North West provincial government s agriculture, culture and tourism strategy.He said agriculture was at the apex of the province s economic drive. Agriculture has been elevated to status. So it is equally important that the department assists farmers to create avenues. Farmers markets also put farmers in pole position as they will benefit from profoundly sustainable incomes, he said.Mokaila said the department offered training and workshops for small farmers to ensure sustainability.He said small farmers contributed significantly to the economy of theprovince.Local farmer Kerotse Lekabe, from Phela village, said: On behalf of farmers here in Mogwase, we want to applaud the department for their effort.This will ease the challenges we come across as farmers. It has been a difficult year for us and we believe this will help. The transportation was always an issue for us. Now it will be easy for consumers to access our products. OBAKENG MAJE